[Music]
hello today I'll be teaching you how to
use the Pythagorean
theorem the first thing you need to know
is that in order to use Pythagorean
theorem you must have a right
triangle as we can see in this triangle
here we have a right triangle with sides
a B and
C note that c must be the longest side
of the triangle also known as the
hypotenuse
now that we have identified that this is
a right triangle we can now use the
formula a 2 + b 2 = c^2 in order to find
the lengths of a
triangle here we have a right triangle
with side lengths 5 and 12 and we have
an unknown hypotenuse
length in order to solve for the hypoten
length we can use Pythagorean theorem to
solve for it all you have to do is plug
in 5 and 12 for the A and B and it
doesn't matter which order you can do it
so let's just say that a is 5 and B is
12 but like I said it doesn't matter
which order they could be
swapped so we have 5^
S Plus 12 2 is equal to our unknown c^2
now we can just simplify this to
25 +
144 is equal to
c^2 and then we further simplify this to
169 =
c^2 you square root both
sides and C is equal to positive
and3 however we cannot have a negative
side length so C must equal pos3
and therefore we have solved for the
missing side length so the side length
of X must be
13 a way we can check to see if our
answer is correct is by plugging our
numbers back into the equation to see if
they are
equal so we can do 5^ 2 + 12 2 and set
that equal to our x^2 which is
13 we get 25 +
144 = 16
9 and thus we get 169 is equal to 169
which is true and that is a way to check
that are your answer is
correct let's try another problem except
this time we have to solve for our leg
instead of the hypotenuse so we're given
that one leg is six and the hypotenuse
length is 10 so using pythagoreans
theorem we can replace a with
6 6^ 2 plus our x^2
is equal to our hypotenuse squ so 10^
s from there we can just simplify 6 2 is
36 +
x^2 is equal to
100 now we simply just subtract both
sides by 36 to get x^2 is equal to 100 -
36 which is
64 now all we do is square with both
sides
and we get X is equal to positive 8 but
as again it can only be positive 8
because it is a side
length and therefore we get xal 8 as our
side
length now we have a problem where it's
asking us to find the area of a square
given that the length of the diagonal is
in to approach this problem we first
need to identify that the area of a
square is length *
width now let's just replace that with
the length and width of the
square which is just x * X is equal to
x^2 so take note that this is the value
we're going to use to find area not just
X so you may be wondering how are we
actually going to use Pythagorean
theorem to solve for the
area well notice that we have missing
sides that we don't know the lengths of
so we can use pyan theorem since there's
a right triangle and we have the
hypotenuse to find X and also note that
in order to find the hypotenuse is
basically just the side that's opposite
from the right angle so in this case 12
so to use Pythagorean theorem we would
plug in x^2 + x^2 is equal to
122 we can simplify that down to
2x^2 is equal to
144 dividing both sides by two we get
x^2 is equal to
72 and then square root both
sides we get X is
equal 2 < TK
[Music]
72 we can also simplify down down to 6 <
tk2 because ro3 6 * < tk2 simplifies to
62 so we have what x is equal to
now but that is not the area that is
just what's x equals 2 so to find area
like I said earlier we want this value
X2 so we would
do area is equal to 6 < tk2 2
which gives us
36 *
2 is equal to
72 another shortcut that you may have
seen is that here before we square
rooted this we had X squ is equal to
72 so we instead of doing this part here
we could have directly just used the 72
as our answer for the area but either
way we get the answer of 7 2 sare in for
the
area thank you for watching if you're
interested in getting tutored by me for
English or math contact me at aing
20@gmail.com
[Music]